Tips & Tricks that helped me improve my art.

Some tips that I’ve found helped me to improve my art would be to study faces and proportions, don’t give up on pieces you don’t like, the more you draw, the better you become, pick out the things you do and don’t like in your drawings and work on them in future pieces, build a community whether it’s Instagram or family or friends that motivate you to keep drawing.

Faces and proportions: I went to the book shop because I had a voucher and I had no idea what to get. I found some art books and came across “Figure drawing for artists- Steve Huston”. Being all excited about a new art book, I went home and started working my way through. This was at the start of the holidays so I worked through the book until school went back. I’m so glad that I did too, I can definitely tell how much I improved after this and would recommend even just watching YouTube videos about proportions.

D9E87B3B-6076-47C9-B1E7-B45490213A87.jpeg

Don’t give up: I would be the kind of person to start a drawing, get half way through, usually finish the face so there was no fun part left, and close the book and start another. This, I regret. I have so many unfinished pieces it’s unbelievable. It really annoys me that I can’t look at my progress when the pieces aren’t finished to the best of my ability back then. So don’t give up! Even if you work on multiple drawings at once so you don’t get bored. The next point can also help you with this.

Build a community: Whether it’s your family, friends, instagram or even all three, build a community of supportive people who motivate you to keep drawing. If people were telling me to stop drawing and that I suck at it when I was younger, I probably would have and I definitely wouldn’t be where I am today! Feel like you have something to work towards, a goal or a milestone. For Instagram, many people use their follower count as a goal. Goals work better if they are measurable, you could have a goal to make a certain number of drawings in a week, or even a month. Or you could have a goal of improving over a certain timespan.
